# Open Collaboration with dataobservatory.eu


[Reprex](https://reprex.nl/) is a Dutch-American early stage startup
based in the Netherlands specializing in making data reliable and
accountable while delivering trustworthy analytics and AI solutions. Our
diverse team works from several locations and countries; our ideal
candidates are located in South Holland (the
Hague/Rotterdam/Delft/Leiden), Western New York state/greater Toronto,
Budapest, Bratislava, or Milano, where we have ongoing projects and team
members, and thus more onboarding and team-building possibilities. That
said, we are open to candidates from any location. We bridge industry
and academia through various advanced statistical and ethical AI
verification projects: while our R&D partners are leading universities,
we aim to deploy our solutions in business environments.

We welcome candidates from all backgrounds and mother tongues who are
proficient in R and have a good working knowledge of the English
language.

## Co-creation, Development

As a contributing developer, we would like to create a shared,
open-source product with you, our jointly exploited and open
intellectual property. We have several R packages that are already
released, and a few that are in a development phase (but already
available on Github.)

1.  Fork the package and use it. Try to create a vignette. The easiest
    way to do it is to create an R script and parallel Rmd script that
    comments on your goals, the data that you use with your example.
    Once the Rmd file is usable for a public, we release it on Zenodo
    (with your authorship) and, if it adds value to our package, as a
    vignette in the package, making you a recognized contributor of the
    package.

2.  Do you find a problem, or have a better idea when making your
    example? Raise an issue on the Github repo of the package. If it is
    problem, let’s try to solve it together, and write a unit-test that
    makes sure the problem never shows up. Once you have solved at least
    one issue, you will be a recognized contributor to the package.

3.  You will be named as a contributing developer in the next
    development version on Zenodo and Github, and eventually in the next
    peer-reviewed CRAN release your contribution will go through
    peer-review. Provide us with your ORCiD to correctly attribute your
    contribution on Zenodo and CRAN.

4.  Participate in the long-term design of the development. We are
    currently writing articles about the methodology that we use, and
    the ideas about further development. You can join as a co-author to
    these articles, for example, with a significant contribution to the
    literature review, as an author of a use-case, or adding a reasoned,
    concise description of a future development that you envision for
    the package. Your ideas will be discussed on Github on the project
    page of the article. The package main developer as a first author
    will make the final decision on your contribution. As soon as you
    contribute to the article, you will be recognized both as a journal
    article co-author and a contributor to the package.

-   [iotables](https://iotables.dataobservatory.eu/): an R package for
    reproducible input-output analysis, economic, and environmental
    impact assessment. The domain specific knowledge is input-output
    economics, multiplier analysis, and environmental impact analysis. A
    working knowledge of SNA or an interest in macro-finance is a plus.
    We develop this application within the rOpenGov community and the
    rOpenSci community. The application has various uses in banking,
    insurance, music industry, and policy design. Planned publication:
    [iotables: an r Package for Reproducible Input-Output Economics
    Analysis, Economic and Environmental Impact Assessment with
    Empirical Data](https://zenodo.org/record/5970960#.Ynp9nehBzIU) .
    Github repo:
    <https://github.com/dataobservatory-eu/iotables-publication>

-   [retroharmonize](https://retroharmonize.dataobservatory.eu/): an R
    package for retrospective survey harmonization and survey recycling.
    The domain specific knowledge is an interest in international,
    multi-language surveys, longitudinal surveys, and the reuse of
    survey data. We develop this application within the rOpenGov
    community and the rOpenSci community. The application has various
    uses in survey harmonization, data integration, and survey design.
    We are planning two articles: a simple [computer/data science
    notice](https://zenodo.org/record/6536273#.Ynp7lOhBzIU) on the
    availability of the CRAN released software, and an example with
    [Cultural Access and
    Harmonization](https://zenodo.org/record/5917714#.Ynp8HehBzIU)
    harmonization. Github repo:
    <https://github.com/dataobservatory-eu/retroharmonize-publication>

-   [regions](https://regions.dataobservatory.eu/): an R package for
    adjusting sub-national boundaries for the making of regional
    statistics. While the U.S. has relatively stable sub-national
    boundaries (the US postal codes), most nations change their internal
    boundaries very frequently. Currently, regions tracks these changes
    in Europe, but our package could and should be extended to all
    ISO-conforming sub-national boundaries globally. An ideal
    domain-specific interest is geography, cartography, and/or
    small-area statistics. The package is currently not developed
    actively, but we expect it to be developed in a small-area
    statistics context, or for surveying withing a regional component.

-   [datasette-install](https://github.com/dataobservatory-eu/datasette-install):
    is an implementation of the *datasette* open source Python data API
    engine of our Rest APIs.

All our open repositories and products require contributors to follow
the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/),
“pledg\[ing\] to make participation in our community a harassment-free
experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, visible or
invisible disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity
and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status,
nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and
orientation.”

## Joint exploitation: creation of high-quality datasets

1.  **Join the development team of one or several of our data
    observatories.** [Digital Music
    Observatory](https://music.dataobservatory.eu/#contributors),
    [Cultural Creative Sectors Industries Data
    Observatory](https://ccsi.dataobservatory.eu/#contributors), [Green
    Deal Data
    Observatory](https://greendeal.dataobservatory.eu/#contributors),
    [Social Sustainability Data
    Observatory](https://.dataobservatory.eu/#contributors)

2.  **Become a data curator yourself.** Data curators are data literate
    users who want to create evidence based policies or reproducible
    research products, scientific publications, KPIs and can specify
    what data they need. We try to create data that meets their
    requirements.

## Practical Issues

Our internal communication platform is Github for software development
and [Keybase](https://keybase.io/), an open-source alternative to Slack.
Please create a profile—you will not regret it, and you can discreetly
communicate with us when you have the time.

You do not have to be a master of Github Action and Github products but
you must be able to make pull requests, commits, and solve issues on
this platform. To apply to any of the positions below,

You can ask questions on
[Keybase](https://keybase.io/team/reprexcommunity), too, or send [an
email](https://reprex.nl/#contact).
